RETRIEVAL OF LOST MOBILE PHONE
In this era of technical advancement   , we all are aware of how mobile phones affect our lives. By gone is the time when mobile phones were only present with a few people .We use mobile phones for  communication via calling and texting ,internet ,photography ,playing games ,internet browsing and it’s uses  extends up to doing tasks like net banking, paying bills, booking tickets. All this signifies the importance of mobile phones in our day-to-day lives . Mobile phones have influenced our lives in such a significant way. But apart from all these there’s another side too.It contains all your personal information like all your texts ,phone numbers ,photos and even location.

But what happens when it gets lost. At first we would be panicked ,but after that we try to find a solution to recover our mobile phones .In today’s technology  there are many innovative tracking features .The first and the foremost tracking method used is  GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (GPS) technology, by which the location of the mobile phone can be traced. And it can also be traced by the INTERNATIONAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT IDENTITY (IMEI) Number, which is a unique identity number for each and every mobiles. With the help of this IMEI Number we can able to track our mobile phones to the exact or to the nearby cell tower, this can be only done by the cybercell. There is a separate  government portal called ceir.gov.in which is used to track the lost mobile phones.  There are various anti theft tracking apps like Cerberus, Lost android etc. We can get these apps through play store etc .They have various remote control features  that include basic location tracking ,secretly recording audio ,video taking hidden pictures ,triggering alarm etc. You can hide these apps in your phones so it will be hard to spot and delete. There are also features in google like find your device using which you can access your location. But the above stated conditions will be work only if the phone is in the on condition. 

But tracking a switched off phone is little bit difficult because when a phone is switched off it will stop communicating with the nearby mobile towers. Our idea is to  place a GPS tracker circuit inside the mobile phones .This GPS tracker automatically turns on when the mobile  is switched off. This GPS tracker circuit consists of power backup along with the SIM/SD card slot .This GPS tracker circuit sends the signal  to the nearest tower ,by which its location can easily be identified. This is done by using the hardware components but incase by using the hardware components if it can’t be traced ,then we can trace it with the help of software applications.

Whenever the lost mobile is logged again ,the sim present inside the GPS tracker circuit sends a command to the Operating system of the mobile which is already configured with programs of specified codes to turn on the camera automatically and then it starts recording .This must be saved as a default settings in all phones and it can’t be modified.
